---
layout: default
title: MA2001
parent: "Course Reviews"
nav_order: 4
has_children: false
---

# Linear Algebra I    
*Academic Year 2021 - 2022*  
*Semester 1*

# NUSMods Description
> This module is a first course in linear algebra. Fundamental concepts of linear algebra will be introduced and investigated in the context of the Euclidean spaces R^n. Proofs of results will be presented in the concrete setting. Students are expected to acquire computational facilities and geometric intuition with regard to vectors and matrices. Some applications will be presented. Major topics Systems of linear equations, matrices, determinants, Euclidean spaces, linear combinations and linear span, subspaces, linear independence, bases and dimension, rank of a matrix, inner products, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, diagonalization, linear transformations between Euclidean spaces, applications.

# Review
This module was taught by Prof Victor Tan and Dr Jonathan. Both are competant lecturers but I am at the slot in which Prof Victor teaches. He goes at a slow enough pace for beginners to grasp him. Patience is really key.

We are expected to watch lecture videos on Tuesdays and attend the lecture conducted via Zoom on Friday. The Zoom lectures are meant to supplement the Tuesday recorded lectures and we have the chance to do some thinking questions with the Prof. Tutorials are really meme. The TA would break us up into breakout rooms and discuss the problems. But problem is no one will talk. It will be radio silence until some hero (usually me) start to speak up. It is very annoying. But whatever, because I already learnt Linear Algebra in H2 F-Math, so I have nothing to lose. Tutorial questions are easy for me. We also had to do Matlab worksheets, which was quite new to me and I thoroughly enjoyed it.

Assessment-wise, tutorial attendance (not participation lol) was graded, we have 5 HW and a Final exam. The 5 HW was easy for me, but I will cross-check answers with my friends in case got any computation carelessness.

Easy module for H2 Fmath students, I have no issue with the module. Even if it is taught by a trash professor, I think I will do well regardless. Finals was easy for me. Make sure to utilise MATLAB fully to save time on computation. It is open book as well, but I would highly advise against referring to material as it just shows you do not have a good grasp on the concepts. Do the textbook questions. JUST DO THEM!


